while I was staying in County Clare I
was in the village of Liston Varna
listing Varna is just a really small
village located in the Bern region and
this is actually where my friend
produces smoke houses where they they
source all of their fish from Aria and
obviously from the Atlantic waters to
all of the rivers throughout the island
of Ireland and you can actually taste
the flavor of the waters in this
wonderful salmon and one of the Salmons
that Brigitta introduced to me was this
and this is a hot smoked salmon and for
this one I'm just it's got this
wonderful lemon pepper a coating to it
so it's very flaky it's very fine so
this is just a wonderful wonderful
salmon that you can make a hearty lunch
or dinner with and for today's recipe
I'm going to make a boxty pancake now
box-t is said to have originated some
time back in the family so let's go and
make a boxy pancake with Fergie to my
friends hot smoked salmon
let's start by grating four peeled
potatoes so using a box grater just
shred the potato like this now remember
potatoes will yield a little bit of
starch so to release some of the starch
what you can do is when you have a very
large amount of as' you can squeeze any
excess starch like that into your bowl
just like that and then we're gonna toss
it and so we're not a larger bowl over
here so there's your prepared potato so
let's continue on and do another of
these another three and a half of these
potatoes now I finished reading all of
my potatoes I've squeezed the starch out
and put the shredded potato into this
bowl as you can see ready to use okay
so put that aside for a moment and we're
going to grab another Bowl so I'll just
swap these out here okay and into my
bowl I'm going to add my flour and to
this I'm going to add my milk let's pour
a listen and then I'm just taking a
whisk
incorporate the two together so we'll
whisk the flour and the milk together
just like that okay we're going to do
this until it becomes very thick with a
fairly thick consistency it would add a
little bit of salt and a little bit of
pepper it's coming together quite nicely
now the potato that I've shredded I've
threaded about four of them and that's
to make a very large quantity of these
box-t pancakes but for this amount that
I've just poured out here for the flour
in the milk this is just enough for one
pancake we're not gonna use all the
potato in this one I just wanted to show
you what it was like to prepare all of
potato for later on as we make more and
more pancakes okay so that looks that's
alright and to this we're going to take
I'm gonna take about a handful of
shredded potato
okay let's throw that in and just
incorporate that around like this that
looks good you see that so there we go
and now our batter is ready to pour in
the pan
so I've made about a dozen boxty
pancakes put one on a plate and then
let's take a generous serving of our
salmon now remember this is going to
crumb a little bit but that's fine
because this is a hot smoked salmon so
the texture is it's going to flake
nicely I just have a look at this look
how beautiful it is gorgeous pinky color
I'm gonna take a ledge of lemon and
we're going to squeeze this nicely on
top of the salmon careful to wear
marketer I have done that a few times
that it's not pleasant and then my
favorite is a nice dollop of creme Frey
or creme fraiche as it's called over
here and then just a little bit of dill
to garnish and there we have it our
box-t potato pancake with salmon from
the burn beautiful hot smoked salmon all
I can say is thanks a lot for DITA
delicious